Which will be the alpha draws
divided by the beta draws.
The data can be found in
the file cookies.dat.
We need to read it into R using
this read.table function,
where we give it the name of the file and
we tell it header=true.
Which means that the first
line of the file itself
tells us the variable names and
doesn't contain data values.
In order for this function to work we
either need to supply the complete
address of this file or
change the working directory of R.
Right now on this computer,
the working directory is /Users/labuser.
The cookies.dot dataset
is located on my desktop.
I'm going to change the current
working directory using setwd.
Now let's getwd again and double check.
Okay so hopefully this will run now.
Let's take a look at
the head of this dataset.
We have that cookie one contains
12 chips and is from location one.
Cookie three has six chips and
it's from location one and so forth.
Let's look at a table of how many
cookies there are from each location.
table(dot$location), there
are five locations,
each with 30 chocolate chip cookies.
Next, let's look at a box plot
of the chips versus location,
boxplot(chips), against location.
And our data will be dat.
This shows us the distribution of the
number of chips by different locations.
It looks like maybe location five
tends to be more generous on average
than the others.
Let's remind ourselves what
this model looks like.
We have the ith cookie
from the jth location and
yij represents the number of
chocolate chips in that cookie.
Where lambda j is the average or
mean number of chips per cookie for
location j.
The different location means come
from this gamma distribution with
these hyper parameters.
Before implementing the model,
we need to select prior distributions for
both alpha and beta.
First, think about what
the lambdas represent.
In location j lambda j is the expected
number of chocolate chips per cookie.
Alpha and beta control the distribution
for these means between locations.
The mean of this gamma distribution
will represent the overall
mean of number of chips for all cookies.
The variance of this gamma
distribution controls the variability
between locations in
the mean number of chips.
If this variance is high,
the mean number of chips will vary
widely from location to location.
If it is small,
the mean number of chips will be nearly
the same from location to location.
To see the effects of different priors for
the distributions of lambda we
can simulate Monte Carlo samples.
Suppose we try independent exponential
priors for alpha and beta.
Let's simulate from that prior,
first we'll set the seed.
And, let's choose our number
of Monte Carlo samples.
Suppose we want to do 500.
Now, let's draw from the prior for alpha.
This will be draws from
an exponential distribution,
where we draw n_sim simulations
at rate= 1.0/2.0.
Create those simulations.
And now let's do the beta_pri simulations.
We'll also do an exponential distribution,
simulate n_sim of them.
And let's try a rate of 5.0 for
this prior for illustration.
Remember that the mean of a gamma
distribution is alpha divided by beta.
So from these Monte Carlo simulations,
let's also draw simulations.
Or let's create based on alpha and
beta simulations for the mean of lambda.
Which will be the alpha draws
divided by the beta draws.
And then we'll have
the standard deviation.
And the standard deviation of the gamma
distribution is the square root of
the alpha, Divided by the beta squared.
We'll run these two lines.
And let's look at a summary based
on our prior for alpha and beta.
This is the summary of our prior for
the mean of this gamma distribution.
We get a Median number of expected
number of chips per cookie, about ten.
But a very large Mean and
a very large Max and
that's probably not
a very realistic value.
Let's also look at the summary(sig_prior).
Not surprisingly we get some
pretty large values up here but
a median standard deviation of 8.5.
After simulating from the priors for
alpha and
beta we can use those samples to
simulate further down the hierarchy.
So for example we can now draw lambdas.
So lambda pri, meaning lambda
prior will come from the gamma
distribution that we've
been talking about here.
So we'll simulate from this distribution
given our draws for alpha and beta.
Rgamma we want to draw n_sim of those
samples where the shape parameter for
the gamma is alpha_pri.
And the rate in this gamma
distribution is beta_pri.
This gives us a prior predictive
distribution for lambda.
Let's look at a summary of that.
Again the median gives us
a pretty reasonable value.
But this distribution is extremely right
skewed because the mean is really large.
If we want to tighten up these values we
might modify these priors on alpha and
beta.
Perhaps we would make them gamma
distributions with smaller variances.
If we want to see what kind of responses
this prior model would produce,
we can simulate even
further down the chain.
We now have Monte Carlo samples for
alpha and beta and lambda.
So we could also generate samples from
the observed number of chocolate chips.
We'll call that y_prior.
This will come from the likelihood rpois.
And we could generate (n_nsim) of these,
where the means of these
distributions are the lamba_prior.
We need to keep the name consistent there.
Of course,
we could look at a summary of y prior.
So we get a median value of
7.0 chips per cookie but,
again, this is very right-skewed.
If we wanted to create a prior
predictive reconstruction of our
original data set, say for five locations.
We would keep only five
of these lambda draws.
We'll reassign lambda prior to the lambda
prior for the first five values.
Then to reconstruct the data set,
we'll draw the y prior values for
those five locations only, rpoisson.
And we're going to draw 150
samples where our lambdas,
the mean of the Poisson
will be these five lambdas.
30 for each location, so
we need to repeat lambda
prior And
each of those will happen 30 times.
We can run that.
Let's take a look at our
reconstructed data set.
This represents what our data
set might have looked like under
our prior distributions.
Because these priors have high variance
and they're somewhat non-informative,
they produce unrealistic
predictive distributions.
Still, given enough data,
we hope that the data would
overwhelm the prior resulting in
useful posterior distributions.
Alternatively we could tweak and
simulate this prior distributions for
alpha and beta, until they adequately
represent our prior beliefs.
Yet another approach would be to
reparameterize the gamma prior.
Which we're going to demonstrate
when we fit this model.